so you take your best friend max to the
doggy park
he meets the labradoodle of his dreams
and they start playing together
peaceful tail wagging quickly grows into
biting each other
oh no they're going for the next you
grab max
and rush back home well in fact there
was no need to rush home
playing with open mouths is called mouth
wrestling or jaw sparring
it's a healthy way of interaction
between dogs they
inherited this habit from their wolf
ancestors
when a dog is a puppy it has to learn
some important skills
including fighting mouthing is just an
imitation of it
when a puppy matures it will know how to
protect itself
and respect boundaries of other doggos
all the chasing wrestling growling and
face biting
is a way to socialize with others and
have fun in the dog world
it's something like sibling rivalry and
playful fights in the human world
you can tell your dog is mouthing and
not attacking another dog
when it's bouncing with happiness or
lies down during the game
this way it's giving the playmate an
advantage they can also switch roles
now some dog breeds are less peaceful
than others
a doggie can also feel afraid
territorial
or overprotective toward its human in
this case
jaw sparring can grow into a real fight
when one dog loses the game's spirit
bites too roughly and holds down the
rival for longer than it should
well the poor playmate will start
yelping this can make the hunter and
protector instincts in the other dog
even sharper
when the dog's body stiffens it stops
bouncing and starts chasing
showing its teeth and gums well it's
time to stop that game
things get even worse when you see the
hackles on its back go up
and you hear some deep growling if your
pet is often going too
far with mouth wrestling you can consult
a dog trainer to stop this
it's also a good idea to teach it to be
gentle with humans when it starts
mouthing
like let it play with your hands and you
yelp when it gets too much for your
liking
the dog will startle for a moment and
feel like it's done something wrong
but that's good this is teaching your
dog something called
bite inhibition you can also give it a
toy or chew bone for a substitute
when it tries to gnaw on you cute
kittens and cats
under the age of two also practice
mouthing they often tumble
all over each other and bite one
another's necks to let out their hunter
instincts
in the wild cats are fast and merciless
and they can't hide it behind
all the purrs in the world play biting
with other kitties can also teach your
little mr biscuit to be more gentle when
it plays with you and other humans
so it's all good place sneezing is
something many dogs do
it's a sign they're happy and enjoying
the process
when they're doing something fun they
often curl their lips
their nose wrinkles then and they sneeze
such sneezes are always short as they
come from the nose and not from the
lungs
dogs tilt their head when you call their
name or make an
unfamiliar sound to hear it better
they're trying to adjust the outer ears
to understand
where the sound comes from they can't
understand what you say
but they can catch a familiar tone and
connect it with food
walk or play time they can also guess
what you say
from your face expression tilting the
head helps them see better
with less of their muzzle in the way now
cats often knock things off tables and
bookshelves to express their prey drive
they're natural hunters and explorers
the only way they can test a new object
is padding
squatting and knocking it down with
their paws
things that roll after falling make them
playful
once a cat notices you never ignore the
sound of a falling
something it might start dropping things
on purpose to get your attention
cats like to sharpen their claws on your
furniture to leave a visual mark on
their territory
they also do it to let their claws renew
and stretch their back and shoulders
the couch seems perfect for it because
it's not too short and is sturdy enough
well you've got to find a good
replacement with the same qualities
to let your kitty scratch and release
its emotions
your dog gets sudden bursts of energy
known as
the zoomies when it's really happy they
can also
circle the room at spaceship speeds to
get rid of energy build up after some
sleep
for puppies zoomies can be a nervous
energy reliever
that's why they often do it after
bathing now your cat
loves to sleep in the sink for nostalgic
and temperature regulating reasons
first the curvature gives them the same
feeling of safety and
pleasant pressure around them they felt
as part of a litter
second the ceramics can serve as a nice
cool down surface
after some time at a warm windowsill or
elsewhere
finally your kitty might just be trying
to spend more time with you
as it knows you often visit the sink
area
now if your fish starts rubbing itself
on gravel
banging against objects in the tank and
swimming quickly without going anywhere
it must be really stressed the reason
could be improper water condition
conflicts with other fish or unbalanced
diet
fish always need a place to hide and
don't like loud noises and banging
coming from the outside
cats freak out when they see a cucumber
because it looks too much like their
long time enemy
snakes they're naturally programmed to
jump up in the air to prevent themselves
from a bite
anything that looks similar from toys to
eggplants
causes a similar reaction it's never a
good idea to show them things like that
for fun
it can really mess up their mental
health your dog
never winks to be cuter on purpose they
do it when they have something in the
eye
or dry eye it's also a way to break some
tension
and avoid a fight direct eye contact is
a show of
challenge in the dog world your pup
winks at you or other dogs
when it's ready to back down now if your
cat winks at you
it's saying it really feels comfortable
with you
slow blinking in cats is called a cat
kiss
you can try slowly shutting and then
opening your eyes
and see if the cat does the same felines
rarely sneer at humans but do it as a
reaction to other cats invisible message
they can sense pheromones other cats
leave in the environment
when they trap it with their tongues
against the roof of their mouth
their lip curls a lot of dogs like to
move their bowl or some pieces of food
from one location to another before
eating this way they're trying to
protect their most precious resource
they think that when they move it no one
will be able to find it and take it from
them
cats often paw or knead the floor before
or right after they eat this is an
instinct that goes down in cat
generations big cats do it too in the
wild they have to hide food remains
so that their enemies can't find them if
you don't like your cat doing food
caching
you can remove the bowl right when it's
done eating or
distract it with a toy hamsters love
their wheels
so much because they're natural runners
in the wild
they can run long distances over the
night they need a wheel in the cage to
be happy healthy and
fit now you can tell a hamster is happy
when it stretches and plays with its
bedding and toys
if it's constantly biting the cage
trying to escape it's not feeling good
and comfy
you might want to get a bigger cage to
make it feel better
if your cat is walking between your legs
it's not trying to trip you
it's trying to leave its scent on you to
claim you as its property
it also rubs against your legs when it's
excited about getting some food
now kitties can be sneaky they know such
signs of affection make your heart melt
and you'll give it what it wants pet
parrots
inherited the habit to only eat a tiny
bit of food
and drop the rest from their wild
ancestors scientists found that
in the wild they mostly drop unripe
fruits
they're more careful with food during
breeding season when they have little
ones to feed
and dogs sometimes bark and move their
feet in their sleep
because they're dreaming if you look at
them you'll notice their eyes are closed
but making rapid movements as they're in
deep sleep cycle
hey my dog wolfs and sometimes cries in
his sleep
and his legs go crazy that must be some
dream
hey how about your pet